# opengl-model
A project written in C++ using OpenGL libraries to draw a scene

The artifact I chose for this milestone was the final project from CS-330, Computational Graphics and Visualization. This project was a 3D scene made in OpenGL and C++. I took this class two terms ago, in March and April of 2021. The project consists of the code required to draw two buildings on a grass plane. It was originally 929 lines, most of which were just used to draw each of the points and triangles required to draw the buildings.

I selected this project for my ePortfolio because I believe it is one of the most complete and most complicated projects I have worked on over the course of my degree. I wanted something that showcased a graphical software program and wanted to keep a variety of different languages for my portfolio. This project gave me the best chance to increase the software design course objectives, as it allows me the chance to restructure code into easily reusable functions.

I know there are glitches in the project, especially with texturing on the roof of both buildings. I also know the code is a mess, with little to no comments, and very repetitive. I feel that it would be far easier to redo the code into functions rather than drawing each triangle individually, and I feel that would significantly reduce the amount of code. Also, when developing the code in the first place, I kept duplicated, commented out code in the project, in case I needed it later. At this point though, that code should be removed.

During the improvements, my first step was to remove all the warnings in my code. Most of these errors were based on converting variables from double to float in certain parts of the code, so I went through and made sure the data types matched. The next improvement I made was going through the code and removing duplicated and commented out lines. This removed approximately 70 lines of unneeded code total. My final, and most significant improvement, was drawing the objects to the screen more efficiently. There are approximately 80 points, and approximately 100 triangles drawn in the project. In the original project, each of these are typed into an array and drawn from that array. The new project reduced this by drawing 5 cubes, one rectangle, and left the rounded roof as the only part of the project that is manually drawn.

The rectangle drawing function I wrote is used to draw a flat rectangle of any size. It takes the four points as parameters, and then information on the texture to apply, and how many times to repeat the texture across the object. This function does everything to draw the object on the scene. The cube function is like the rectangle function but requires the 8 points for the corners of the object drawn instead. This function just determines the points that are needed to draw each side of the object, and then calls the rectangle drawing function with those points and textures.

I feel I reached the goals I had set in module one, as the code has been reduced by nearly 200 lines (from 929 to 751), and I have created two functions that have made it far easier to add to the scene as well. In the process of creating these functions, the texture errors from the old code were fixed as well, and the one building is completely drawn using the new functions. I also learned more about the structure of OpenGL code, and what is required and what is optional to include. I also learned how to better handle drawing individual objects, and the new scene draws 32 separate times, instead of the 3 massive draws the original code did, grouping each texture and drawing every object of that texture at once. Over the course of the project as well, I found memory leaks from data not being properly cleared, which has reduced the total memory usage from about 220mb to about 140mb.
